US Secretary of State Anthony blinkin
hoping for more than just a deal between
Hamas and Israel eager to restart stall
ceasefire talks he says Hamas should
accept a new Israeli proposal Hamas has
before a proposal that is
extraordinarily extraordinarily generous
uh on the part of Israel and In This
Moment the only thing standing between
the people of Gaza and a ceasefire is
Hamas
they have to decide and they have to
decide
quickly Hamas dismisses accusations it's
delaying a ceasefire deal the group that
controls Gaza blames the Israeli Prime
Minister for putting his own political
survival ahead of a lasting
agreement and mediators Qatar and Egypt
are continuing to explore chances for a
new one but are becoming increasingly
frustrated Qatar prime minister and
Minister of Foreign Affairs says the
biggest obstacle to Lasting peace is the
failure of the International Community
to solve the Palestinian Israeli
conflict a lot of efforts must be
exerted to sort out the military
escalation for the sake of all countries
in our region we need to bring peace to
the Middle East the International
Community has failed to find a solution
to the Palestinian cause thus we now see
the Bloodshed everywhere and every day
in the Gaza
strike us officials have been trying to
build consensus for a postwar Gaza they
initially said they want to see a new
Palestinian Authority take over and when
President Mahmud Abbas appointed a new
prime minister Hamas rejected the move
as a
betrayal and there's another reason why
the US wants a deal soon the Americans
believe a long-term political solution
to the Palestinian Israel conflict could
encourage Saudi Arabia and many Arab
Nations to establish diplomatic ties
with Israel Hashim Al
jaaz let's get more from this from our
correspondent in occupied East ju and
Bernard Smith is standing by for us and
that news emerging of what a deal might
look like from the Israeli side
certainly being talked up by the US
Bernard yes it is we've heard there in
hashim's report Anthony linkoln
describing this as an extraordinarily
generous proposal we're now waiting to
see if the Israelis travel on Tuesday to
Ciro that's they're ready to do that
they say if Hamas is accepting the
principles of their of this latest
proposal and if there's something for
them to continue talking about sources
are saying that now Israel is willing to
take perhaps something a bit less than
40 of the 133 captives still believe to
be being held in Gaza and in return for
that they're offering an initial period
of a ceasefire and then something called
they call a period of sustained calm and
in return the Israelis uh well
Palestinians will also get the release
of um a lot of Palestinian prisoners
David Cameron Britain's foreign minister
actually said it could ultimately be
potentially thousands of Palestinian
prisoners so we're waiting to see if
Hamas accepts the proposals that uh that
Israel has offered if any we had the the
the joy of foresight uh Bernard because
there are always stumbling blocks aren't
there it's never easy to negotiate these
sorts of things what sort of things
could be or could hamper you might say
the conversations that might happen in
Cairo well it's how close the two sides
get together on their differing demands
Hamas has always in previous talks been
demanding a complete end to the fighting
a withdrawal of his troops so that
Palestinians can return to their homes
particularly in the north of Gaza so it
depends how this wording of a period of
sustained calm that Israel is offering
is interpreted by Hamas and it also M
depends whether Benjamin Netanyahu can
politically get away with this one of
his major calculations as many of his
critics will say is whether he can
survive politically so he's obviously
have having to consider whe he can
whether he can survive this offer
politically we already know the far
right in Israel wants him to go ahead
with an operation in Rafa he is clear if
there is any sort of ceasefire or pause
in fighting that operation in Rafa will
inevitably get paused Netanyahu
calculating that he can perhaps get away
with that and still survive politically
Berard thanks very much for the update
there coming in from occupied East
Jerusalem of course we'll monitor events
with Bernard through the evening joining
us now on the telephone is assama hamdan
he spokesperson for hamas's political
Bureau joins us now Mr hamon thank you
for joining us on Al jazer can we just
confirm where is the Hamas delegation
right now are they in Cairo or not and
have the talks begun with Egyptian uh
Egyptian
mediators well thank you for having me
um I can confirm that ham
Del they have already arrived in kir and
I think now they have started the the
talks of the Egyptian mediators and the
concentration on those negotiations
talks is about to understand the real
position of the Israeli side especially
what it was the paper which was
introduced to Hamas contained some uh
undefined issues which we need to know
exactly what was the meaning of from the
Israeli side okay what are your demands
then right now because because the
ground realities seem to change day by
day well Hamas position is very clear we
are talking about five issues we have to
solve it together a complete
uh stop for the Israeli fight against
Gazza the with second a complete
withdrawal and the third one the return
of the people to their homes the fourth
one the construction construction of
Gaza and the fifth one a
fair exchange for
prisoners it's clear from the Israeli
paper that they are still insisting on
two major issues they don't want a
complete ceasefire and they are not
talking in a serious way about the
withdrawal from Gaza in fact they are
still talking about their presence and
the valley of GZA which means that they
will keep continuing cutting GZA in two
pieces
uh we have a serious questions for the
mediators if there was positive answers
I think we can move forward the US
Secretary of State Anthony blinkin says
the deal has been offered it's
incredibly generous as far as the
Israelis are concerned you won't really
know how generous that is will you until
your negotiating side has a chance to
read the fine
print well I I I I I can't understand
how he's talking about this so far are
as seriously generous he is a mediator
he's he's a supposed mediator and he's
supposed to be fair for both sides in
fact the ideas which was introduced by
the Israelis is not complete ideas uh I
think he is doing such a propaganda in
order to push the things forward
especially he was talking to uh Arab uh
leaders and he understands that all
Arabs are willing to have a ceas fire
and to stop the Israeli attack on GZA so
he's using those words to show that
there is something serious in fact
without a complete withdrawal and
without a real ceas fire there is
nothing to happen the second Point
stopping the attack against the
Palestinians is not something
generous the the attack itself is a
crime so when you stop a you can't CL
claim that it's a general action from
the Israeli side they have to stop that
in fact the United States has to make
real efforts to stop that not providing
Israel with uh 26 billion US Dollars 18
of them is for the military supporting
the killing of the Palestinians in gazra
we saw Gulf leaders in Riyad today uh
issue a very strong statement to the us
that they wanted to see a ceasefire they
wanted to see a negotiated peace yet
gazans are suffering famine and that's
being recorded and reported in the
general populace are you and the
fighters of Hamas willing to continue to
fight despite the hardships facing many
thousands well in fact if there was a
ceasefire and there was an international
will to make an end for the occupation
Hamas will receive that in a very
positive way our aim as Palestinians our
men goal is to liberate our lands if
that happened by the pressure of the
International Community and there was an
end for the occupation Hamas will
welcome that for sure Asama Haman senior
spokesperson for hamas's political
Bureau thanks for joining
us make sure to subscribe to our channel
to get the latest news from Al jaaz